# microenvironment_Rt
Data and code for analysis of temperature-only-based transmission of dengue for outdoor vs indoor microenvironments

It contains three data files:
- cities_hobo_filtered.csv: contains data collected from the temperature data loggers with data collected, filtered and gathered in one readable file.
- cities_meteorologic.csv: contains data downloaded from the IDEAM weather stations. The entity is a colombian governmental entity, which collected the data and made them available through its webpage.
- epid_data.csv: Contains cases count data for some arboviruses collected through SIVIGILA (colombian mechanism to inform diseases) in filtered and organized format.

It contains three code files, which contains accordingly the functions for three methods (namely: Caminade, Liu-Helmersson and Mordecai):
- Functions_Caminade.R
- Functions_liu.R
- Functions_Mordecai.R

Also, three R files can be found here to run the analyses. The instructions for codes are the following:
- Analysis_Rt: Contains the code to organize data and perform simulations.
The code file contains general code to run with each of the three methods. It should be picked one of the methods and run the code accordingly. It should be careful to run the appropriate piece of code in the simulations section since method-specific functions should be runned (it is indicated in the script). According of the method runned, a final data frame should be generated with name whole_df_(name of method), which contains the results of the dengue cases generated by simulations.

- Stats_whole_df.R: Once the whole_df files are generated (whole_df_cam, whole_df_liu and whole_df_mor), these are put together and some stats are generated. Also, a bunch of correlations are performed and putting into a single data frame.

- indoor_outdoor_cor.R: This file contains a piece of code to perform temperature daily-average-based monthly regressions to find a way to estimate indoor temperatures from outdoor temperatures.
